---
layout: about
title: About TND
description: Story, mission, and research consultants.
mission: >-
  The goal of this website is to share research-backed insights into screen-based addictions and other psychological issues, surface current solutions, and present actionable steps to usher in a healthier era of digital technology.
headshot: /assets/images/max.jpg
headshot_alt: Maxwell Barvian headshot
theme: style2
---

## Story

My name is Maxwell Barvian, and I've been a professional computer scientist and software designer for [12 years](http://linkedin.com/in/barvian).. I've designed and built websites and apps for Fortune 500 companies, prestigious universities, health-tech startups, and more. Some of my highlighted work is available on my [personal portfolio](http://barvian.me) and [Dribbble profile](http://dribbble.com/barvian).

I've struggled immensely with screen addiction since I was 12 years old and spent most of my youth slaving away on various computer-related projects. For the last 4 years of my career the problem became inescapable yet maddeningly difficult to pinpoint. I developed severe ADD that seemed to go away when I wasn't at work, terrible insomnia, and a type of chronic overstimulation that eventually led to a total physical and mental health collapse in 2015. Ironically, even during the yearlong recovery I could only seem to think about screen-related things, to the detriment of my relationships with loved ones who found it difficult to support my fanatical obsession with technology. I habitually quit tech jobs after noticing these issues, lived off savings until I could no longer afford to, then retreated back to the comfort of my screen-based career until months had passed and the same issues returned.

In 2019, after locking my computer down to strictly utility apps and websites, I noticed after a few weeks that my usage and obsession with it hadn't decreased. Instead, I was spending much of my free time coming up with ideas I could write in my notes app, one of the few remaining tools on my computer. In one moment I felt all my fanatical obsession turn towards the note-taking app itself; I spent half an hour scrutinizing every detail of the application and started brainstorming ideas on how I could create a better one (ideas of the sort that never materialized into action). Suddenly I was confronted with the reality of the situation: my addiction to technology had very little to do with the software and would change at whim depending on whatever software was available. This was contrary to popular opinion; I had been previously assumed like most (including many academics) that screen-based problems were the result of screen-based content. I was heavily involved in the [Consciousness Hacking](http://cohack.life) movement to address screen addictions and other problems through better software. I had even built an [iPhone app to help manage Generalized Anxiety Disorder](http://barvian.me/gad) and briefly collaborated with an entrepeneur from the Consciousness Hacking group who was building a compassion-based social network. Nonetheleses, I dedicated my spare time and energy trying to figure out the potential root cause. Finally, in March of 2019 after a failed attempt at addressing the problem by constructing my own LCD screen, I switched my desktop monitor to an E Ink display. Within 2 days I realized I had pursued my career in technology to satisfy an undiagnosed screen addiction. After a few more days I started going through my first screen withdrawals that lasted for months. To this day I'm still discovering experientially how much screens have shaped the course of my life. I haven't owned or used a "normal" screen since and likely never will.

Unable to reconcile this experience with my job as a digital product designer, I put a pause on my career to figure out what happened and why my previous attempts had failed. I've spent hundreds of hours gathering research, reading books, and talking to psychologists, neuroscientists, and computer scientists. The problems with screen technology are utterly profound and have surprisingly little to do with what's displayed on them. The true solution lies&mdash;as I and a few others experienced firsthand&mdash;in healthier hardware. The New Digital is my outlet to share this research and conversation, and advocate for what is clearly the only healthy future of screen-based technology. I hope you find it insightful and resourceful. Thank you sincerely for reading.

-- Maxwell